[Music]
twelve signs you feel different from
others do you sometimes feel like your
emotions are so deep and colorful you
just can't compete with them that's a
sign that you may be a highly sensitive
person but are you really if so what
does it even mean let's try to figure it
out together before you find an answer
to the big question be sure to hit
subscribe and ring the notification belt
to join us on the bright side of life
okay so the essence of being a highly
sensitive person is closely connected to
another important notion sensory
processing sensitivity this term was
created by psychologists Elaine and
Arthur Aaron back in the 90s they
explained that sensory processing
sensitivity is basically a temperamental
or personality trait that reflects an
increased sensitivity of the central
nervous system along with deeper
cognitive processing a physical social
and emotional stimuli put simply it
means you can have acute responses to
pretty much everything from your
surroundings to your own thoughts Elaine
and Arthur arrant created a term for
people with a high measure of sensory
processing sensitivity and started to
call them highly sensitive people
moreover the Ahrens develop a highly
sensitive person scale questionnaire
which allows them to establish that
highly sensitive people make up about
fifteen to twenty percent of the
population however this scale is not
always necessary not that long ago
specialists revealed a whole bunch of
signs that can help you establish
whether you're highly sensitive or not
so let's see what these simple clues are
number one you're really emotional this
is one of the most obvious signs of
highly sensitive people they feel it all
and they express it it can be anger
happiness tears you name it the size of
their emotional range however can
sometimes cause problems with others
this is simply because they don't
understand why highly sensitive people
get so worked up over little details
[Music]
thankfully highly sensitive people have
a very rich inner world - and they can
turn to it in moments of stress so if
someone you know is highly sensitive
never make them feel weird or ashamed of
how they feel if you don't understand
something it doesn't mean it's wrong so
be considerate and patient highly
sensitive people will certainly
appreciate that number two you can read
people like an open book
if you can sense the atmosphere in the
room as soon as you walk in you've got
to be one of those highly sensitive
people they're the true kings and queens
of nonverbal communication with their
ability to detect any slight changes in
somebody else's mood and that's because
they subconsciously pay attention to
little things like body language tone of
voice and facial expressions even though
it seems like it would be cool to know
so much about other people it quickly
gets incredibly exhausting as highly
sensitive people can't help but absorb
others emotions so if you leave pretty
much every conversation feeling
emotionally dried out there's a high
chance that you really are one of those
highly sensitive folks number three
you're sensitive to caffeine Coffee is a
great drink to kick start your day right
not for highly sensitive people research
conducted by Elaine Aaron confirmed that
caffeine affects highly sensitive people
much more strongly than others and it's
not at all the positive effect you'd
expect just one cup of coffee can ruin a
highly sensitive person's day as their
heart starts pumping their nervousness
kicks in and they feel terrible for a
couple of hours and possibly the whole
day coffee is basically kryptonite for
the majority of highly sensitive people
[Music]
number four you hate scary movies every
time you go to the cinema or have a
movie night with your friends you try to
stay as far away from horror movies as
you can yes your friends may be
disappointed but you can't stand this
genre if you're looking for a reason why
it may be because you're one of the
highly sensitive crew
according to Elaine and Arthur Aaron
highly sensitive people are unbelievably
empathic and overstimulated which makes
watching any suffering unbearable for
them even on a physiological level so if
this sounds like you add another
checkmark to the list
number five you're very polite as people
who feel everything very strongly highly
sensitive people can go to great lengths
to make sure they don't hurt somebody's
feelings Elaine and Arthur Aaron confirm
this saying that highly sensitive people
are extremely conscientious even if they
aren't that content around someone
they'll always be as nice and polite as
they can in addition their ability to
notice every single detail allows them
to see bad manners in others and there's
nothing that annoys them more than rude
and inconsiderate people number six
loud noises scare you remember how
highly sensitive people hate horror
movies well one more reason for this is
jump scares as highly sensitive people
find it hard to cope with loud noises
and it can be anything
allowed boombox playing at the party or
loud people who don't know that silence
is an option as highly sensitive people
are naturally more overwhelmed by an
abundance of activity any unnecessarily
loud noise cuts through their heads like
a buzzsaw preventing them from hearing
their own thoughts or concentrating on
anything else if you get seriously
scared by sudden car alarms going wild
in the street or other unexpected sounds
that's another clue for you number seven
you can't stand conflict
constant fights and disagreements create
an extreme level of tension which highly
sensitive people feel to the fullest
sometimes all these emotions can make
them physically sick after an especially
brutal conflict as a result they tend to
avoid confrontations and keep the peace
by any means necessary
it's way easier for them to say what you
want to hear than to go through the
terror of arguing with someone they
truly love and care about number eight
you take criticism badly someone's words
can make or break a highly sensitive
person if you encourage them they'll
feel like they can do anything if you
strongly criticize them their confidence
will plummet according to Julie Galen a
psychotherapist specializing in sensory
processing sensitivity highly sensitive
people have a very active limbic system
often called the emotional brain this
means that in situations where others
would turn to their thinking brain to
not take things personally highly
sensitive people process things
emotionally even if they know that
criticism isn't true
these harsh words can even bring back
memories of all the other painful
comments that were made in the past so
if you see yourself in this description
it's just one more reason to believe
that you may in fact be highly sensitive
number nine you're prone to anxiety and
depression highly sensitive people have
strong emotions and their emotions are
often affected by other people's
feelings at times this can be too much
and lead to serious problems like
anxiety and depression it's not that
easy for them to fight these conditions
since they're sharp and deep feelings
don't go anywhere this all happens
because highly sensitive people can
experience different kinds of over
stimulation that leads to depression
including those connected to the
environment their body and their inner
world therefore they have to work hard
to keep everything balanced in their
minds and hearts number 10 you get
hangry pretty easily have you ever felt
especially angry and irritated if you
haven't had anything to eat for a while
that's hangry for you even though you
can all relate to it in some sense
highly sensitive people feel that on a
whole other scale it's all thanks to
their sensitivity to any blood sugar
changes that happen when you skip a meal
Amy Morin a psychotherapist and author
of the book thirteen things mentally
strong people don't do says that being
hangry makes it hard for highly
sensitive people to concentrate and get
something done so if you notice that
your mood quickly and inevitably changes
when you're hungry this might be a sign
of your high sensitivity number eleven
you're very sensitive to lights smells
and textures highly sensitive people
usually feel very uncomfortable when
exposed to bright light just like with
loud noises bright lights are considered
to be a strong sensory input for them
which they don't take that well the same
thing goes for strong smells even nice
ones and rough clothing textures
that's why highly sensitive people might
leave the room when someone's wearing a
particularly strong perfume plus they
pick their clothes very carefully to
make sure they feel 100% comfortable in
that number 12
we often have vivid dreams just as I
mentioned before highly sensitive people
have rich and colorful inner worlds
thanks to that they were real day
dreamers when they were little and
probably had more than one imaginary
friend but as they got older they
transformed into having very detailed
and realistic dreams with plastic it
easily when an Oscar moreover their mind
works its magic when they're awake to
constantly sparkling with no ideas plans
and scenarios so how many of these signs
matched with your personality tell us in
the comment section below don't forget
to give this video a like share it with
your friends pan click subscribe stay on
the bright side
[Music]